If songs.db contains the top 100 songs of one listener from 2018, how would you 
characterize their audio aura?

    - Each of the auras would have set range for the energy, valance, and danceability values.  
      I could have a SQL query that calculated the AVG for the descriptors for their top 100 songs 
      and then have some algorithm that picked which aura group most closely matched their three averages.

    For example:
        -> "Orange" Auras are described as "rebellious and bold" so they might
            have a lower danceable score but higher energy and loud levels.
              - danceability:   .45
              - loudness:       -8
              - energy:         .9

        -> "Yellow" Auras listen to music that calms their nerves and helps
           "fuel their goals". Their energy and loudness might be lower but 
            dance scale higher because the rhythm could help them get into a 
            flow state.
             - danceability: .6
             - loudness:     -3
             - energy:       .5


    Then, there would be a SQL query that captured the average values for 
    their top 100 songs like:

        SELECT AVG(energy), AVG(danceability), AVG(loudness)
        FROM songs
        ORDER BY plays DESC
        LIMIT 100;


    An algorithm could be written to capture the average absolute value 
    differences from the aura's values and the user's values.

    If the user's averages were from the songs.db, then you could find 
    the absolute value difference from my made-up orange and yellow values:

        +-------------+-------------------+---------------+
        | AVG(energy) | AVG(danceability) | AVG(loudness) |
        +-------------+-------------------+---------------+
        | 0.65906     | 0.71646           | -5.67764      |
        +-------------+-------------------+---------------+

    Orange comparison:
        Danceability:  | .45 - .71 | = .26
        Loudness:      | -8 - (-3) | = 5
        Energy:        | .9 - .65  | = .25

    Yellow comparison:
        Danceability:  | .60 - .71 | = .11
        Loudness:      | -3 - (-3) | = 0
        Energy:        | .5 - .65  | = .15


    Based on my made up hypothetical values for the orange and yellow aura's, 
    the user's values would align more closely to the yellow aura.

    (I have no idea how this would actually be done, just speculating)





2. Hypothesize about why the way you’ve calculated this aura might not be very 
representative of the listener. What better ways of calculating this aura 
would you propose?

      Its always going to be hard to extrapolate meaning from data because there 
      are so many unknown quantities. For example, my sister has kids and she listens 
      to some of the same songs over and over again because her kids like those songs.  
      Should that be apart of the the "aura" even if it doesn't reflect her musical 
      tastes?

      Another weird variable is spotify's shuffle algorithm.  It's a pretty well known 
      fact that Spotify's random shuffle isn't entirely random.  If you are getting the 
      same handful of songs first when you shuffle a playlist, those songs are going to 
      be over represented in your top 100 list.

      In recent years Spotify has done a better of making their "Spotify Wrapped" 
      slightly more generic and less about the top 100 songs.  For example it gave me 
      information about often I listened to music outside of the main genres I listen 
      to. It was more or less an "adventure" score rather than a score of my overall 
      musical personality. I think something like this does a better job of generalizing 
      without overstepping.

      To answer the second part of this hypothetical question I probably would analyze 
      their top genres out of all the songs they listen to rather than the top songs. 
      I think this could give a better indication of what the user has going on in their 
      life and maybe not call it an "aura".

      If I absolutely has to give an aura score, I would try to make the quantifiable 
      data points better. For example while answering the first question, I looked on 
      their website to see what the loudness measurement meant.  I think it is how much 
      they need to normalize the song to make the album average at -14dB. Essentially 
      louder songs needed a lower number in order to get it to the average while softer 
      songs needed a higher value because they didn't need as much normalization.  
      If I read that correctly and this average is calculated with the entire album, 
      it could skew that data if there is a particularly loud song on a overall quiet 
      album or vice versa.

      Im guessing danceability is measured by the rhythm of a song but a danceable 
      song to one person might be not be to another.  Some people square dance to 
      country music while others enjoy twerking to hip-hop.  It seems like many cultures 
      all over the world have different types of music they enjoy to move to all with 
      different rhythm patterns.

      To solve this problem I would try to normalize the data against how it compares to 
      other music genres inside the same geographic location.  Music from India probably 
      shouldn't get scored in the same way that New Orleans Jazz gets scored. People in 
      other cultures might focus, workout, and express emotions in totally different ways.


Source for how spotify measures loudness: https://support.spotify.com/us/artists/article/loudness-normalization/
